Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(thunder crashes)
No!
Aah! No! No! No!
(Hawaii Five-O
theme song plays)
♪ Hawaii Five-O 5x23 ♪
Mo'o 'olelo Pu
(Sharing Traditions)
Original Air Date on May 1, 2015
♪ ♪
What's after this?
Well, you already tried
talking me out of it,
so I think we're done.
I could arrest you
for ignoring a direct order.
How about that?
You could.
But you won't.
You remember that time
I snuck out to Maunawili Falls
because you and all
your friends were there?
You guys were all
jumping off that cliff.
I climbed all the
way to the top,
'cause I wanted to jump, too.
Big shot 12-year-old.
All your friends
were cheering me on.
But you didn't want me to jump.
And when I did,
you didn't talk to me
for a whole month.
Because if something
bad would've happened to you,
Uncle would've put me
in the ground.
My point is I was fine then.
And I'll be fine now.
That just proves
how stubborn you are.
Runs in the family.
I can't argue with that.
(laughs)
♪ ♪
Requesting permission
to come aboard.
Permission granted, Commander.
At ease.
Figured we'd see your
fiancé out here today.
KONO: Yeah, well, Adam
said he'd rather
watch me come home
than leave, so we said
- our good-byes this morning.
- STEVE: Yeah, well, I can't blame him.
We all feel the same way, Kono.
DANNY: Hey, you're gonna
have to come down off the ship
if you want me to say good-bye.
Come on.
Hey, I got her.
Open the trunk.
- We'll throw her in.
- KONO: I'll be fine, guys!
Hey, listen now.
About that weather
we got coming in?
KONO: You know, the storm
front's moving south.
And I'm heading
east to Moloka'i.
So if I leave now,
the only ones getting hit
by rain are you guys.
Friend of mine's got a
pretty sweet storm shelter,
if anyone's interested.
It's got Wi-Fi.
CHIN:
We'll think about it, Jerry.
Thanks for coming, Kawika.
You're making us proud today.
(both speak Hawaiian)
(speaks Hawaiian)
MAX:
This craft appears to be
quite sound and stalwart,
Officer Kalakaua.
And if you ask my opinion,
you'll have no trouble
circumnavigating the islands.
DANNY: I can get you
the same trip for $150.
Plus they give you
a bag of peanuts.
KONO:
Flying is easy.
Our ancestors, they connected
the islands
on a wa'a like this one.
Yeah, where's your sense
of adventure?
"Adventure"? No, I..
I work with this guy.
I don't need any more
adventure. Thanks, though.
GRACE: I have something
for you, Auntie.
KONO:
Love you.
I got something
for you, too, sistah.
Sustenance for the sea,
from the sea.
Oh... You know that's gonna
go bad in two hours, right?
Anybody hungry? I got two
garlic shrimp plates half off.
Cash only.
DANNY: That's unbelievable.
You're gonna make us pay,
but you're gonna give
it to her for free?
Who said anything about free?
I was gonna have her wear
my designer apparel.
Little product placement
for the journey.
DANNY:
Kono, take it. It's good.
In case your sail fails,
you got an extra.
- Be safe.
- Thank you.
Dad?
I didn't think you were coming.
You know she wouldn't
have missed this
for the world.
Her mother had an aneurysm
a few years back.
She's beautiful, isn't she?
I'm doing it, Mom.
She's very proud of you.
Malama pono.
Aloha Au Ia 'oe.
(blowing conch shell nearby)
♪ ♪
OFFICER:
His name is Brian Devlin.
He's been the head pharmacist
here for 12 years.
He has a wife
and two kids.
All right, what else do we know?
This is the fourth drugstore
robbery in three days.
First one to leave a Vic.
Witnesses said that
three masked gunmen
entered the store.
Opened fire on Mr. Devlin
when he tried
to activate the silent alarm.
How much did they make off with?
They weren't here for money.
OTC pseudoephedrine.
One box of this yields
roughly three grams of meth.
- Right?
- These guys are working with stock
From four different pharmacies.
These ain't some kids
just goofing around
trying to cook meth
in their father's garage.
- We're dealing with some major players here.
- All right, listen.
If we don't find them soon,
a bunch of new product
is gonna flood the market.
I want them for this murder.
♪ ♪
(thunder crashes, booms)
(grunts, yells)
Hey.
Chin?
Hey, yo, Chin?
GROVER:
Chin, you all right, man?
Yeah, yeah.
Just, uh, looks like
that storm changed course.
Kono said she was
going around the storm.
- She'll be fine.
- Yeah.
She's gonna be fine.
All right.
(thunder rumbling)
(thunder crashes)
(water gurgling)
♪ ♪
- Hey.
Any updates?
Yeah.
So I simulated Kono's movement
based on wind speed
and currents.
It seems likely
she beat the storm.
But, you know...
I can't be sure.
You can't be sure, but watching
this all night's not gonna help.
I tried calling
her satellite phone.
- She didn't pick up.
- Right,
But she said, before she left,
she was gonna save the battery.
Remember? Turn it on
every other day,
check in with us?
Now, it's day one.
I'm sure she's on track.
She knows what she's doing.
She's fine.
Hey. HPD just sent over
that footage
from the pharmacy takedown.
Come on.
GROVER: Now, these two birds
are just the muscle.
This guy's the cook.
Knows exactly what
he's looking for.
Wait, Lou.
Pause it right there.
What, you recognize that ink?
Yeah.
That's Makai Akana.
He used to be the most
prolific cook on the island.
He had a reputation for
pumping out high-grade meth
in a very short amount of time.
Yeah, I put him in
Halawa years ago.
Looks like he made parole
a week ago.
♪ ♪
6:00 a.m.
Okay... that's east.
I gotta head north.
Makai Akana!
Five-O!
Open the door!
Come out here.
It's all right.
What do you want?
- Where is he?
- He's not here.
And thank you for
violating my civil rights!
Look, we're sorry about that.
You still in school?
STEVE:
Clear!
Look, whatever my father
did this time,
I don't know anything about it
and I don't want to know.
- OFFICER: Clear!
- STEVE: All right.
He's not here, it's clear.
You have any idea
where we can find him?
He dropped by a few days ago,
after he got out.
I haven't heard from him since.
All right, well, what happened
- when he came by?
- He wanted to talk,
But to tell you the truth,
I wasn't in a listening mood.
STEVE:
All right.
Your old man got a cell phone?
I have no idea.
If I give this to you, Carter,
can I count on you to call me
if you hear from him?
If it means never
seeing him again,
absolutely.
Pretty sure
you're not gonna make
that kid's Christmas card list.
Can't say that I blame him.
That kid grew up
without a mother.
Dad in and out of the joint.
You know, when I arrested
Makai ten years ago,
Carter there was a straight-A
student in high school.
He was heading toward HSU.
That day changed his life.
They put him
in the foster system
and nothing was the same
after that.
(water gurgling)
♪ ♪
(bird trills)
NANI:
Hands in the water, Kono.
Eyes ahead.
Ankles together.
That's right.
Just like that.
Full extension.
Shallow strokes.
Keep your feet together.
You do that,
and you can paddle forever.
(coughing)
Spit it out.
That's it.
Good girl.
(bird trills)
You're okay.
You see that koa'e?
(trilling)
Watch it fly.
The Koa'e 'ula
always heads for land
with long and graceful strokes.
That's how we do it, right?
You ready?
Yes.
I'm flying!
Mom! I'm flying!
That's it, Kono!
Keep going!
You got it!
(laughs)
See this, Mom?
I'm flying.
I'm flying, Mom.
(scanner beeping)
Getting a strong
cell signal, three o'clock.
Fall back! Cover me!
Clear!
♪ ♪
(blender whirring)
STEVE:
Stop what you're doing.
Get on your knees, put your
hands behind your head.
- I can't do that.
- CHIN: It doesn't look like
You have much choice.
You don't understand.
I can't stop.
If I don't finish,
my son is dead.
♪ ♪
(Kono and Nani laugh)
YOUNG KONO:
It's working!
Mom, it's working!
(giggles)
E ke Akua,
Mahalo no,
Mahalo Ia 'oe,
No keia 'ai, Amene.
Remember, Kono,
the Earth provides sustenance
for the sea
so the sea can provide for us.
♪ ♪
Who are they?
I don't know their names.
You don't know their names?
Why, you three
have hit a lot of pharmacies
in the last three days.
You expect us to believe
you don't know
who your partners are?
They weren't
my "partners."
I was their prisoner.
That's right.
I already told you.
I had to cook.
I had no choice.
CHIN:
Why don't you just back up?
Take it from the top.
MAKAI:
Last week,
I get out of Halawa.
I'm barely out the door
when these guys jump me.
They tell me if I don't cook
for them, they'll kill Carter.
STEVE:
These two in the photo?
And their boss.
CHIN:
We want to believe you, Makai,
but, right now, we got a dead
pharmacist in the morgue
and you did absolutely nothing
to prevent him from being there.
My son is all I have.
STEVE:
All right, I get that.
But help us
make sense of all this.
Tell us about your boss.
I can't.
STEVE:
Forget this.
I'm done.
Those two words
just put you back in jail.
- (lock buzzes)
- Okay.
But you have to promise
you'll protect my boy.
We will put
a security detail on him
once you give us a name.
Willie Moon.
GROVER:
24 years old.
Accomplishments include dropping
out of high school at 16,
and holding a string
of dead-end jobs.
No criminal record to speak of.
STEVE: I find it
hard to believe
that this kid is the brains
behind the next major
up-and-coming meth production
and distribution ring.
He have any connection to Makai?
None.
CHIN: All right, then why
does he pick Makai?
The guy's been in jail
for years.
There are plenty of
cooks on the island.
Everybody starts somewhere.
How do we know
we're not witnessing
the birth of a major player?
STEVE: All right, well,
here's the thing:
If Moon is the real deal,
the good news is we've got
a chance to crack this kid
before he makes his mark
on the ice trade.
♪ ♪
Find them.
You done?
I'll be back tomorrow.
Kila?
Paoa?
(gun clicks)
Willie Moon,
you're under arrest for murder,
methamphetamine trafficking
and about half a dozen
other related charges.
Get on your knees,
put your hands behind your head.
(lock buzzes)
(door opens)
Did you find Moon?
We did.
Turns out he wasn't the one that
put you back in the kitchen.
Well, who-whose idea was it?
(sirens wailing)
(engine starts)
(indistinct radio communication)
No matter what he did,
he was still your father.
(sighs)
Did he say why?
He said you owed him.
That when you went to prison,
you left him with nothing.
(stammers)
What about the other guys?
They were Carter's friends.
My son made up this threat
to force me to cook again?
He called it his inheritance.
That, as far
as he was concerned,
you were dead to him.
So,
what happens now?
Your son's gonna go to prison.
You're gonna walk away from this
with your parole intact,
no more prison time.
Doesn't really matter.
(sighs)
When I was in Halawa,
there was only one reason
to get out.
Carter.
That...
second chance kept me going.
And now...
I've got nothing.
Makai,
I know what it's like
to have your family
turn their back on you.
Let me give you
a little bit of advice.
Keep moving forward,
because you still have
a shot at redemption.
If not for your son,
then for yourself.
I'll get you out of here.
(helicopter whirring)
Hey!
Over here!
(coughing)
Hey! Over here!
Come back! Come back...
(conch shell blows)
♪ ♪
You want some help?
No, thank you.
I got it.
You're getting
really good, Kono.
A year from now, you'll
be paddling out at Pipeline.
You think so?
I do.
(conch shell blows)
What is that?
It's a Pu kani.
The sound of a conch shell.
Someone is marking the
beginning of a journey.
There.
See it?
It's a wa' kaulua.
Our ancestors sailed canoes
just like that.
They used the stars to navigate
all the way from Tahiti.
We wouldn't be here
without them, Kono.
They pulled Hawaii
out of the sea.
Pulling Hawaii out of the sea.
(fish splashing)
♪ ♪
E ke Akua,
Mahalo no,
Mahalo Ia 'oe,
No keia 'ai,
Amene.
Hey.
What happened, you get evicted
from your house or something?
You going home?
I'm good; I'll go
in a minute.
Just gonna check these,
uh, satellite weather reports
one more time.
I hear there might be
some more bad weather
building east.
Ah.
You're a good cousin.
You know that?
Get out of here;
I'll see you tomorrow.
Yeah, you will.
(sighs)
(beeps)
(keypad beeping)
(rings)
Kono?
(static crackling)
(staticky):
Chin, I need help!
Kono, I can barely hear you.
Chin?
Chin, I got caught in...
(static crackling)
Kono! Kono!
(auto dial beeping)
Steve, I just heard from Kono.
She sounds bad;
something is wrong.
All right,
I'll call the Coast Guard.
(thunder rumbles)
(groans)
No, no, no!
(gasps)
Wow.
You don't like the weather
in Hawaii,
wait ten minutes.
(laughs)
Are you sure about this, Mom?
I've never been more sure.
Even marrying your father
took some persuading.
I mean it.
The weather's been bad
this season.
No matter what time
of year I go, Kono,
hiki Mai ka malie,
a hiki Mai no ka 'ino.
"Good weather comes,
bad weather comes, too."
That's true.
You have a saying
for everything, don't you?
Not me.
Our people.
I'm going to be all right.
Ever since I was a keiki,  I've
wanted to take this journey.
You know that, Kono.
It's my destiny.
And I'm finally ready for it.
(chuckles)
Kono.
What happened?
Your mother had an aneurysm.
Is she gonna be all right?
(sniffles)
Sir, we're observing
storm-force winds.
45 to 50 knots,
gusting to 60.
Swells at 30 feet and building.
Reported lightning strikes
in the vicinity of the airfield.
Kono's outrigger doesn't stand
a chance in those conditions.
Launch the alert cutter,
station Honolulu.
Notify the B-6 unit to get
underway as soon as possible.
Yes, sir.
We'll have four boats
in the water within a half hour.
Okay, that's four boats.
What are you doing
about air support?
(sighs) I understand
your frustration, Lieutenant,
but we cannot utilize aircraft
in these conditions.
Captain, all due respect,
that's our friend out there
floating around
on a 20-foot piece
of driftwood.
I'm well aware of that.
And when the front passes,
we'll have a window
to launch our SAR Birds.
Until then, it's
a surface search only.
STEVE:
Sir.
If the safety of your men is
your main concern, let me fly.
I have experience
piloting HH-65s
in conditions worse than
this many times over.
I can't authorize that,
and you know it.
DANNY: Right.
So, what?
We just wait
until the storm lets up?
I'm sorry.
This is Lieutenant Commander
Steve McGarrett,
requesting naval support.
One of our own, Kono Kalakaua,
is lost at sea.
Last radio contact
was 14 hours ago.
Commander, weather's passing,
helos are spinning up.
All right, let's move.
(radio chatter)
Hey, hey, I see something.
Chin.
I-I see wreckage, but no Kono.
All right, what about the
paddleboard? Do you see that?
No, negative.
She's alive, Chin...
We're gonna find her.
Where are you?
Where are you, Hawaii?
♪ ♪
Kono?
You should be
in bed, sweetheart.
What are you doing?
(both giggling)
I'm learning from the sky, Kono.
When I set sail someday,
everything I need to know
will be right up there.
(groans)
Na-hiku.
'Iwa Keli'i.
Ten,
20 degrees.
North of Piko o Wakea.
I remember Moloka'i,
21 degrees north
of Piko o Wakea.
Right on track, Mom.
PILOT: This is Coast Guard
Rescue 6578,
returning to base.
No, we can't go back in...
We got to do one more pass.
It's a 20-minute trip,
we're at bingo fuel.
I'm sorry, but we need
to return to base now.
This is Coast Guard
Rescue 6578, inbound.
40 miles south of the field.
Returning home to refuel.
(coughing)
Hey...
Mom?
This way, Kono.
This way, Kono, this way.
Mom?
Wait.
Come on, Kono.
Mom!
Wait.
Mom?
No!
♪ ♪
(cell phone rings)
Hello.
Where?
Thank you.
♪ ♪
You did good, ku'uipo.
I fell.
You're going to get knocked off
your board many times, Kono.
The only thing that matters
is that you get back up.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org